Flora Doc


* FRONTEND : 

* BACKEND : https://github.com/shadmaan9216/backend_farmer

 Agriculture, being one of the most predominating reasons, as we know it is the major sector of employment which accounts for 42 percent of the total employment and contributes about 19.9 percent to our country’s GDP. Crop Failure is the major reason for the suicides of the farmer. And Crop Failure due to plant disease is among the major cause. Lack of agricultural knowledge increases the probability of crop failure and the severity as well. For this, it is essential that they get proper assistance on time, but it has been found in the past that they are not able to get it due to a lack of communication media through which they could actually connect with the Botanist and get their issue resolved. So we have come up with this product which would solve this problem and provide necessary remedies for the concerned issues. 

An app-based solution that connects a farmer with the botanist, whose plant, tree, farm, or agricultural land is affected by a disease. Other than connecting a farmer to the doctor, it also has various features to make the job easier for the botanist as well as the farmer. While designing our product we thought of the various problems which we may encounter, the major being: what if the load on doctors is high or there are more farmers' requests than the available botanist. To tackle this we have developed a Deep Learning Model that acts as a filter for all the requests. The model can predict the 26 most common diseases in different plants with more than 99 percent Accuracy and could be used offline which resolves the problem of less connectivity in rural areas. This offline feature has a lot bigger significance than we can imagine. Rural areas of India to which most farmers belong have several connectivity issues ranging from network issues to internet availabilities in a concerned area. This problem has been solved easily by making the deep learning model work offline. The model is also able to recommend the cure for the detected disease. The highlight here is that the app is still lightning. Our developers have tried to make the app as compact as possible. 

If a farmer still wants to consult with a botanist, he could consult with him using various communication mediums including encrypted calls, email, or personalized chat. The botanist is recommended based on the availability of the botanist. The botanist can log in and update their availability according to their schedule. The botanist with fewer farmers’ issues assigned is recommended first to the farmer who is looking for a botanist. Other than that we have a separate portal for a botanist to manage their assignments. It would be available on both web and App, to make the job easier for the botanist.  

We are also trying to build a marketplace for farmers so that all the farm products prescribed by the botanist could be attached with a buying link for that product, so that the product is easily accessible to the farmer, along with that we would provide him with the location of the nearby centers and shops from where he could purchase the prescribed products. We are trying to build a One App Solution for the farmer. For this reason, we are also trying to add more features to our Product which includes building a customized Newsteller for the farmers where they get various news related to both farm and the farmers which includes govt policies, etc. Other than that we are building a Farm recommendation system that would recommend to farmers the needs of their crop to get better yield based on the weather conditions, crop, and the disease if any.  

This app is compact, portable, and is loaded with a bunch of features. We are trying to provide facilities to make this app one solution for all the problems of farmers. This app will help farmers and help the overall economy of our country. It will decrease confusion among farmers and give them a simple and easy-to-follow solution. The farmer is provided with both the disease and its solution along with professional advice if needed. And also a marketplace for getting those essentials to solve the problems with the latest news on topics related. We have made our App Multi-lingual so that every farmer in our country could take benefit from it. And all these facilities are provided for free. 





